# DeceptionCorpus
Corpus consisting of 600 contributions in Spanish –100 true and 100 false statements for each topic–, with an average of 94 words per statement and a total of 56,882 words. A manual verification of the quality of the contributions was made, and each verbal sample was entered into a separate text file, misspellings being corrected.The design of the questionnaire for the compilation of the corpus was inspired in Mihalcea and Strapparava (2009). It focused on three different topics: opinions on homosexual adoption, opinions on bullfighting, and feelings about one‟s best friend. The first two topics (homosexual adoption and bullfighting) are controversial and sensitive subjects, which cause people to entertain a personal opinion on them. Specifically, the participants received instructions to imagine they were taking part in a debate, and had 10-15 minutes to express their opinion about the topic. First, they were asked to prepare a brief speech expressing their true opinion on the topic. Next, they were asked to prepare a second brief speech expressing the opposite of their opinion, thus lying about their true beliefs. In both cases, the guidelines asked for at least 4-5 sentences in as much detail as possible. For the other topic, the contributors were asked to think about a good friend of theirs, including facts and anecdotes considered relevant to their relationship. This topic was selected so as to offer a counterpart to the previous topics, since they entailed less emotional involvement. Thus, in this case, they were asked to tell the truth about how they felt. Next, they were asked to think about a person they could not stand, and describe it as if he or she were their best friend, and the same with a bad teacher. In this second case, they had to lie about their feelings toward these people. As before, the guidelines asked for at least 4-5 detailed sentences. It is worth noting that time restrictions were not imposed for either language.
